EDU-16951 - Implementing marketplaces: Integrating VTEX stores (#2517)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/guides/Business-models/integrating-vtex-stores.md

---
title: "Integrating VTEX stores"
slug: "integrating-vtex-stores"
hidden: false
excerpt: "Learn the initial steps to integrate VTEX stores to act as marketplaces and sellers."

> createdAt: "2026-06-16T00:00:00.000Z"

Author: ```suggestion
createdAt: "2026-08-11T00:00:00.000Z"
```

To create an affiliate ID:

1. In the VTEX Admin, go to **Store Settings > Orders > Settings**.
2. In the **Affiliates** tab, click `+ New Affiliate`.
3. Complete the required fields. For detailed information about these fields, see [Configuring affiliates](https://help.vtex.com/docs/tutorials/configuring-affiliates).
4. Click `Save` to create the affiliate.

> ℹ️ After creating the affiliate, provide the affiliate ID to the marketplace operator. The marketplace will use this ID when adding your store as a seller.

### Reindex the database

After the marketplace adds the seller, it's time to send their product catalog by reindexing the database. This process:

* Prepares SKU and product information.
* Sends catalog, price, and inventory information to the marketplace.
* Updates the marketplace with the current product assortment.

To reindex the database:

1. Open your browser and access the following URL, replacing `{storename}` with the account name of your store:

   `{storename}.vtexcommercestable.com.br/admin/Site/FullCleanUp.aspx`

2. Click the `Reindex database` button to start the process.
3. Track the reindexing progress in the VTEX Admin through **Catalog > Reports**.

> > ℹ️ Only the [sponsor user (owner)](https://help.vtex.com/docs/tracks/what-is-the-master-user) has permission to reindex the database. During reindexing, products remain available for sale in the store while being queued for information updates.

Author: ```suggestion
> ℹ️ Only the [sponsor user (owner)](https://help.vtex.com/en/docs/tutorials/what-is-the-sponsor-user) has permission to reindex the database. During reindexing, products remain available for sale in the store while being queued for information updates.
```
